Motion plan exercise (#388)
ros-industrial/industrial_training: gh_pages/_source/session8/Motion-Planning-with-Tesseract.rst

----------------------
We will create a new workspace, since this exercise does not overlap with the previous exercises.

#. Disable automatic sourcing of your previous workspace in your ``.bashrc`` if you had any.

    .. Note:: This means you'll need to manually source the setup file from your new colcon workspace in each new terminal window.

#. Source ROS 2 into your environment

    .. code-block:: bash

		source /opt/ros/foxy/setup.bash

	.. Note:: If you are using a VM provided by us, please skip to step 6 as a directory called ``tesseract_ws`` should already exist with the dependencies have already installed for you.

#. Copy the template workspace layout and files:

    .. code-block:: bash

    	mkdir -p ~/tesseract_ws/src
    	cp -r ~/industrial_training/exercises/8.0/template ~/tesseract_ws/src
    	cd ~/tesseract_ws/

#. Install ``taskflow`` from the ROS-I PPA
	.. code-block:: bash

		sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ros-industrial/ppa
		sudo apt-get update
		sudo apt-get install taskflow

#. Install the ROS 2 dependencies (this may take a while)
	.. code-block:: bash

		cd ~/tesseract_ws
		vcs import < src/dependencies_tesseract.repos
		vcs import < src/dependencies.repos

> 		vcs import src < src/snp_automate_2022/dependencies.repos

Reviewer: You are missing the `src` portion on the first two imports

Author: lol literally just realized and added this as i was setting up the VMs

   * Don't forget to check the ROS distro and the build system!

Intro (Review Existing Code)
----------------------------
Most of the infrastructure for a ROS node has already been completed for you; the focus of this exercise are Tesseract planner profiles and taskflow generators. You will notice that many files and packages are already provided for you. You could run the application as is, but you may get errors. At this time we will explore the source code that has been provided. The following are highlights of what is included.

#. ``snp_automate_2022/config/worcell_plugins.yaml``:
	* This file contains all of the kinematic plugins and contact manager plugins for our application. A kinematic plugin configuration file like this is required to use Tesseract. Take a look at ``workcell.srdf`` to see how it gets incorporated into the project.

#. ``snp_motion_planning/src/planner_profiles.hpp``:
	* This file contains the planner profiles used to create our motion plan. Currently, only the Simple Planner profile is fully populated. This is one of the main files we will be editing in our exercise.

> #. ``snp_motion_planning/src/planner_server.cpp``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. ``snp_motion_planning/src/planning_server.cpp``:
```

	.. code-block:: bash

	   ros2 launch snp_automate_2022 start.launch.xml

You should see an Rviz window appear with a robot on a table. Click `Get Detailed Scan` to see a model of our work surface appear on the table. Use the `Polygon Selection Tool` at the top to select a region on the work surface. 

Find the `snp_tpp_app` window that should also have appeared when you launched the application. We can use this to select different tool path planners and modifiers. Add ``ROISelectionMeshModifier`` and ``PlaneSlicerRasterPlanner``. You should see more options appear on the screen after. Feel free to play around with these and see how they affect your tool path plan. For the `Tool Path Modifier` we recommend adding ``SnakeOrganizationModifier``.

After making changes on the `snp_tpp_app` return to Rviz and click `Generate Tool Path Plan`. You should now see waypoints appear in your selected region. When you are satisfied with the waypoints, click `Generate Motion Plan` (this may take a few minutes). 

There should also be a `joint_state_publisher_gui` on your screen. Feel free to play around with it as well to create different start states.

> .. Note:: If the application fails to create a motion plan, try playing around with the settings in `snp_tpp_app`. You may need to change the line and point spacing.

Reviewer: Also add that it will fail if your start state is in collision.

            addNode(std::make_unique<tesseract_planning::DescartesMotionPlannerTask>(output_keys_[0], output_keys_[0],
            false));

   Now we have created nodes for our planner. Find 

   .. code-block:: c++

      /* =======================
       * Fill Code: EDIT EDGES
       * =======================*/

   in the same method and fill in the code to add edges between our nodes. Will need to replace 

   .. code-block:: c++

      addEdges(min_length_task, { contact_check_task });

   with

   .. code-block:: c++

      addEdges(min_length_task, { descartes_planner_task });

   and then add the line

   .. code-block:: c++

      addEdges(descartes_planner_task, { error_task, contact_check_task });

   Because we want Descartes to be run globally over the entire motion, we need to create a new global raster pipeline. Toward the bottom of the file notice the line

   .. code-block:: c++

      using CustomGlobalRasterGlobalPipeline =
          tesseract_planning::RasterGlobalPipelineTask<tesseract_planning::SimpleMotionPipelineTask,
                                                       tesseract_planning::DescartesGlobalMotionPipelineTask,

>                                                        CustomRasterPipeline>;

Reviewer: I don't think you need to point this out anymore because it is included in the initial template provided to them.

   We have now added Descartes to our raster taskflow. 

   .. Note:: Pay attention to how the graph's edges and vertices are connected. We have already included post-collision checking for the simple planner and time parameterization. Play around with removing one or both of those and observe how your motion plan changes. 

#. Run the application:

   Now let's try running our application. Build and source your workspace then run the following

   .. code-block:: bash

      ros2 launch snp_automate_2022 start.launch.xml

   How does the motion plan look? Does it fail to plan often? Does the motion look smooth? 

   Notice that this implementation in the taskflow uses Descartes to resample all waypoints and solves for that single raster again after a global Descartes has already been run. We will fix this later.

Implement the TrajOpt Planner Profiles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Create the planner profiles:
 
   In ``planner_profiles.hpp`` find the section

   .. code-block:: c++

      /* ==========================
       * Fill Code: TRAJOPT PLAN
       * ==========================*/

>    TrajOpt is a planner that creates a nonlinear optimization problem to solve until it converges on a solution. As this planner does not have any knowledge of time, it only looks at adjacent states while planning. There are three different TrajOpt planning methods: plan, composite, and solver. In this application we will be implementing the plan and composite profiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   TrajOpt is a planner that creates a nonlinear optimization problem to solve until it converges on a solution. As this planner does not have any knowledge of time, it only looks at adjacent states while planning. There are three different profiles you can adjust to setup a TrajOpt planner: plan, composite, and solver. In this application we will be customizing the plan and composite profiles.
```

	   profile->collision_cost_config.safety_margin = 0.010;
	   profile->collision_cost_config.safety_margin_buffer = 0.010;
	   profile->collision_cost_config.coeff = 10.0;

	   profile->collision_constraint_config.enabled = false;

	   return profile;

   Notice that the composite profile takes more parameters into account than the plan profile. Unlike the plan profile, which only looks at one waypoint at a time, the composite profile looks at the whole motion. You can add costs on velocity, acceleration, and jerk as well as specify how collision checking is to be handled.

#. Add the planners to the planning server:
   
   Go back to ``planning_server.cpp`` and add our two new custom profiles to the server

   .. code-block:: c++

      profile_dict_->addProfile<tesseract_planning::TrajOptPlanProfile>(
          tesseract_planning::profile_ns::TRAJOPT_DEFAULT_NAMESPACE, PROFILE, createTrajOptToolZFreePlanProfile());
      profile_dict_->addProfile<tesseract_planning::TrajOptCompositeProfile>(
          tesseract_planning::profile_ns::TRAJOPT_DEFAULT_NAMESPACE, PROFILE, createTrajOptProfile());

#. Add the planners to the taskflow:

>    Return to ``taskflow_generators.hpp``. As Trajopt will be used for both the transition and freespace planning taskflows, we will need to modify the ``ctor()`` method in ``FreespaceMotionPipelineTask``, ``TransitionMotionPipelineTask``, and ``CartesianMotionPipelineTask``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Return to ``taskflow_generators.hpp``. As Trajopt will be used for transition, freespace, and process planning taskflows, we will need to modify the ``ctor()`` method in ``FreespaceMotionPipelineTask``, ``TransitionMotionPipelineTask``, and ``CartesianMotionPipelineTask``.
```

      addEdges(trajopt_planner_task, { error_task, contact_check_task });

   You will also need to modify the edge connecting ``min_length_task`` to ``contact_check_task`` and instead have it connect to our new ``trajopt_planner_task``.
   
   Now navigate down to ``TransitionMotionPipelineTask``. You will need to add the same line as before to create the TrajOpt node. For the edges, change ``min_length_task`` to again connect to ``trajopt_planner_task`` and then add the following line to conenct ``trajopt_planner_task`` to ``error_task`` and ``contact_check_task``.

   ..code-block:: c++

     addEdges(trajopt_planner_task, { error_task, contact_check_task });

   Scroll down to ``CartesianMotionPipelineTask`` and make the same changes to add the TrajOpt node and edges. For the edges, we again want ``min_length_task`` connected to ``trajopt_planner_task`` and ``trajopt_planner_task`` connected to both ``error_task`` and ``contact_check_task``. Additionally, you shoud edit the edge from ``descartes_planner_task`` to go to ``trajopt_planner_task`` instead of ``contact_check_task``.

   Now our TrajOpt planners are connected to our taskflow!

#. Run the application:

>    Now try running the application again and notice how our robot's motion plan has changed. Don't forget to build and source your workspace!

Reviewer: Add a note that it still might fail frequently since there is nothing to generate  good freespace or tranistion motion seeds

   * Don't forget to check the ROS distro and the build system!

Intro (Review Existing Code)
----------------------------
Most of the infrastructure for a ROS node has already been completed for you; the focus of this exercise are Tesseract planner profiles and taskflow generators. You will notice that many files and packages are already provided for you. You could run the application as is, but you may get errors. At this time we will explore the source code that has been provided. The following are highlights of what is included.

#. ``snp_automate_2022/config/worcell_plugins.yaml``:
	* This file contains all of the kinematic plugins and contact manager plugins for our application. A kinematic plugin configuration file like this is required to use Tesseract. Take a look at ``workcell.srdf`` to see how it gets incorporated into the project.

#. ``snp_motion_planning/src/planner_profiles.hpp``:
	* This file contains the planner profiles used to create our motion plan. Currently, only the Simple Planner profile is populated. This is one of the main files we will be editing in our exercise.

> #. ``snp_motion_planning/src/planner_server.hpp``:

Reviewer: Should be `planning_server.cpp`. There is no `planner_server.hpp`

> 	* This is where our custom planner profiles will be used by our application. Take a look at the ``createProgram()`` method. This method takes the toolpath rasters and connects them with transitions and the starting and ending freespace to create our motion plan's waypoints.

Reviewer: > This method takes the toolpath rasters and connects them with transitions and the starting and ending freespace to create our motion plan's waypoints.

I would say something more like: "This method takes in the toolpath rasters and constructs motion plan requests in a manner usable by Tesseract. These motions include freespace motions, transition motions, and raster (process) motions. The order that they are added is the same order that they will be returned in."

Or maybe you don't want to add quite that much detail.

#. ``snp_motion_planning/src/taskflow_generators.hpp``:

> 	* This file creates taskflow graphs for planning transition and freespace motions using our planners. This is another main file we will be editing.

Reviewer: > transition and freespace motions

freespace, transition, and raster motions

Fill in the Code
----------------

> The planner profiles tell Tesseract which motion planner we would like to use as well as any special configurations required to use each one. These configurations can range from timeout limits to specific pose sampling. For this exercise, we will be implementing the profiles for Descartes, OMPL, and TrajOpt. 

Reviewer: The planner profiles don't tell Tesseract which motion planner to use, just how to use a given motion planner (the configuration).

Currently, only the Simple Planner is set up. Try running the application and see how the motion plan performs.

	.. code-block:: bash

	   ros2 launch snp_automate_2022 start.launch.xml

You should see an Rviz window appear with a robot on a table. Click `Get Detailed Scan` to see a model of our work surface appear on the table. Use the `Polygon Selection Tool` at the top to select a region on the work surface. 

> Find the `snp_tpp_app` window that should also have appeared when you launched the application. We can use this to select different tool path planners and modifiers. Add ``ROISelectionMeshModifier`` and ``PlaneSlicerRasterPlanner``. You should see more options appear on the screen after. Feel free to play around with these and see how they affect your tool path plan. For the `Tool Path Modifier` we recommend adding ``SnakeOrganizationModifier`` and ``RasterOrganizationModifier``.

Reviewer: > For the `Tool Path Modifier` we recommend adding ``SnakeOrganizationModifier`` and ``RasterOrganizationModifier``.

I'm not sure what `RasterOrganizationModifier` does. I usually use the snake one and the moving average one. @marip8 would likely know best.

> After making changes on the `snp_tpp_app` return to Rviz and click `Generate Tool Path Plan`. You should now see waypoints appear in your selected region. When you are satisfied with the waypoints, click `Generate Motion Plan` (this may take a few minutes) and then `Execute Motion Plan` once a plan has been found. 

Reviewer: Execute Motion Plan Doesn't actually do anything in simulation mode other than just return success. If they want to see the motion they need to navigate to the Tesseract workbench widget and then the trajectories tab. Then find the latest planned trajectory.

.. Note:: If the application fails to create a motion plan, try playing around with the settings in `snp_tpp_app`. You may need to change the line and point spacing.

Implement the Descartes Planner Profile
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Create the planner profile:
	
   Within ``snp_motion_planning/src/planner_profiles.hpp``, find the section

   .. code-block:: c++

      /* =======================
       * Fill Code: DESCARTES 
       * =======================*/

   We must fist set up some configurations we want our Descartes planner to follow. The following block specifies the number of threads we need for the planner, if we allow redundant joint solutions, and whether or not to allow collisions.
   Copy and paste the following:

   .. code-block:: c++

   	auto profile = std::make_shared<tesseract_planning::DescartesDefaultPlanProfile<FloatType>>();
  		profile->num_threads = static_cast<int>(std::thread::hardware_concurrency());
	  	profile->use_redundant_joint_solutions = false;
	  	profile->allow_collision = false;
	  	profile->enable_collision = true;
	  	profile->enable_edge_collision = false;

>    Now we will also specify our state and edge evaluators. The state evaluator is a function that takes in a Descartes problem and returns a state that we can then evaluate. A few things we may choose to evaluate are whether or not the state is valid, the cost of the state, and any biases we may want to give it. The edge evaluator works similarly but evaluates adjacent states. 

Reviewer: The state evaluator looks at a given state and gives the state both a cost and a pass or fail. The edge evaluator does the same thing but for a transition between two states. 

You kinda are already saying that, but some of the wording for the state evaluator is a little confusing to me.

I believe what is specifically happening here is you are creating functions that will generate these evaluators for later use by Descartes. @marip8 feel free to correct me if I'm wrong about anything here.

   Copy and past the following below the previous block:

   .. code-block:: c++

	  	// Use the default state and edge evaluators
  		profile->state_evaluator = nullptr;
  		profile->edge_evaluator = [](const tesseract_planning::DescartesProblem<FloatType>& prob) ->
      		typename descartes_light::EdgeEvaluator<FloatType>::Ptr {
        		auto eval = std::make_shared<descartes_light::CompoundEdgeEvaluator<FloatType>>();

        		// Nominal Euclidean distance
        		eval->evaluators.push_back(std::make_shared<descartes_light::EuclideanDistanceEdgeEvaluator<FloatType>>());

        		return eval;
      		};
      	profile->vertex_evaluator = nullptr;

>    Finally, we set the ``target_pose_sampler`` which takes a given function for sampling. In our example, we specify our pose sampling to allow any rotation along the z-axis as it will not impact our final results.

Reviewer: I would maybe add a note here that Descartes can only work in discrete space, so we are only sampling at increments of 10 degrees around the z-axis.

   in the same method and fill in the code to add edges between our nodes. Will need to replace 

   .. code-block:: c++

      addEdges(min_length_task, { contact_check_task });

   with

   .. code-block:: c++

      addEdges(min_length_task, { descartes_planner_task })

   and then add the line

   .. code-block:: c++

      addEdges(descartes_planner_task, { error_task, contact_check_task });

   Because we want Descartes to be run globally over the entire motion, we need to create a new global raster pipeline. Toward the bottom of the file find

   .. code-block:: c++

      /* =========================================
       * Fill Code: CUSTOM GLOBAL RASTER PIPELINE
       * =========================================*/

   Under it add the following line

   .. code-block:: c++

      using CustomGlobalRasterGlobalPipeline =
          tesseract_planning::RasterGlobalPipelineTask<tesseract_planning::SimpleMotionPipelineTask,
                                                       tesseract_planning::DescartesGlobalMotionPipelineTask,
                                                       CustomRasterPipeline>;

   We have now added Descartes to our raster taskflow. 

>    .. Note:: Pay attention to how the graph's edges and vertices are connected. We have already included post-collision checking for the simple planner and time parameterization. Play around with removing one or both of those and observe how your motion plan changes. 

Reviewer: Worth noting that I suspect they will see no change in removing those last two. They'd only see a change if they remove contact check AND a previous step explicitly is allowing collisions. I don't know that any wording change is needed here, but it's worth knowing.

#. Run the application:

   Now let's try running our application. Build and source your workspace then run the following

   .. code-block:: bash

      ros2 launch snp_automate_2022 start.launch.xml

>    How does the motion plan look? Does it fail to plan often? Does the motion look smooth? In your ``/tmp`` directory you should now also have a ``.dot`` file beginning with ``RASTER``. This will contian a visual representation of your taskflow. Take a look at the taskflow for our current motion planning pipeline.

Reviewer: In the latest version the `.dot` graphs aren't super useful. You just see the global plan and then that another plan exists.

Reviewer: I would test this out on your machine to see how it looks.

   Notice that this implementation in the taskflow uses Descartes to resample all waypoints and solves for that single raster again after a global Descartes has already been run. We will fix this later.

Implement the TrajOpt Planner Profiles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Create the planner profiles:
 
   In ``planner_profiles.hpp`` find the section

   .. code-block:: c++

      /* ==========================
       * Fill Code: TRAJOPT PLAN
       * ==========================*/

>    TrajOpt is a planner that creates a nonlinear problem to solve until it converges on a solution. As this planner does not have any knowledge of time, it only looks at adjacent states while planning. There are three different TrajOpt planning methods: plan, composite, and solver. In this application we will be implementing the plan and composite profiles.

Reviewer: nonlinear **optimization** problem.

>    We will begin by filling out the plan profile. This method is focused at the waypoint level by adding costs and constraints to cartesian waypoints. Below the above block copy and paste the following code

Reviewer: The wording is a little confusing to me that the plan profile spefically is always focused at the waypoint level. 

I would say something like: "We will begin by filling out the plan profile which focuses on how individual waypoints are handled"

   This method adds a vector of cost constraints on the cartesian axes of the waypoints in order to make certain motions more or less expensive than others. Here, we have costs in all directions except around the z-axis as rotation in the z-axis will not affect our outcomes. 

   Locate the section

   .. code-block:: c++

     /* ==============================
      * Fill Code: TRAJOPT COMPOSITE
      * ==============================*/

   Now we will create the TrajOpt composite profile. 

   .. code-block:: c++

      auto profile = std::make_shared<tesseract_planning::TrajOptDefaultCompositeProfile>();
  	  profile->smooth_velocities = false;

	  profile->acceleration_coeff = Eigen::VectorXd::Constant(6, 1, 10.0);
	  profile->jerk_coeff = Eigen::VectorXd::Constant(6, 1, 20.0);

	  profile->collision_cost_config.enabled = true;
	  profile->collision_cost_config.type = trajopt::CollisionEvaluatorType::DISCRETE_CONTINUOUS;
	  profile->collision_cost_config.safety_margin = 0.010;
	  profile->collision_cost_config.safety_margin_buffer = 0.010;
	  profile->collision_cost_config.coeff = 10.0;

	  profile->collision_constraint_config.enabled = false;

	  return profile;

>    Notice that the composite profile takes more parameters into account than the plan profile. Unlike the plan profile, the composite profile can also add constraints on velocity, acceleration, and jerk across a collection of waypoints rather than only looking at single waypoints at a time.

Reviewer: > Unlike the plan profile, the composite profile can also add constraints on velocity, acceleration, and jerk across a collection of waypoints rather than only looking at single waypoints at a time.

Unlike the plan profile, which only looks at one waypoint at a time, the composite profile looks at the whole motion. You can add costs on velocity, acceleration, and jerk as well as specify how collision checking is to be handled.

#. Add the planners to the planning server:
   
   Go back to ``planning_server.cpp`` and add our two new custom profiles to the server

   .. code-block:: c++

      profile_dict_->addProfile<tesseract_planning::TrajOptPlanProfile>(
          tesseract_planning::profile_ns::TRAJOPT_DEFAULT_NAMESPACE, PROFILE, createTrajOptToolZFreePlanProfile());
      profile_dict_->addProfile<tesseract_planning::TrajOptCompositeProfile>(
          tesseract_planning::profile_ns::TRAJOPT_DEFAULT_NAMESPACE, PROFILE, createTrajOptProfile());

#. Add the planners to the taskflow:

>    Return to ``taskflow_generators.hpp``. As Trajopt will be used for both the transition and freespace planning taskflows, we will need to modify the ``ctor()`` method in both ``FreespaceMotionPipelineTask`` and ``TransitionMotionPipelineTask``.

Reviewer: You only mention the freespace and transition motion pipelines here, but you go on to add it to all 3. I'd also mention the raster one here

      addEdges(trajopt_planner_task, { error_task, contact_check_task });

   You will also need to modify the edge connecting ``min_length_task`` to ``contact_check_task`` and instead have it connect to our new ``trajopt_planner_task``.
   
   Now navigate down to ``TransitionMotionPipelineTask``. You will need to add the same line as before to create the TrajOpt node. For the edges, change ``min_length_task`` to again connect to ``trajopt_planner_task`` and then add the following line to conenct ``trajopt_planner_task`` to ``error_task`` and ``contact_check_task``.

   ..code-block:: c++

     addEdges(trajopt_planner_task, { error_task, contact_check_task });

   Scroll down to ``CartesianMotionPipelineTask`` and make the same changes to add the TrajOpt node and edges. For the edges, we again want ``min_length_task`` connected to ``trajopt_planner_task`` and ``trajopt_planner_task`` connected to both ``error_task`` and ``contact_check_task``. Additionally, you shoud edit the edge from ``descartes_planner_task`` to go to ``trajopt_planner_task`` instead of ``contact_check_task``.

   Now our TrajOpt planners are connected to our taskflow!

#. Run the application:

>    Now try running the application again and notice how our robot's motion plan has changed. Also take a look at your ``.dot`` graph again to see the changes we have made to our taskflow. Don't forget to build and source your workspace!

Reviewer: Again, unfortunately not sure we'll be able to see these changes in the .dot graph.

   .. code-block:: c++

      auto profile = std::make_shared<tesseract_planning::OMPLDefaultPlanProfile>();
      profile->planning_time = 10.0;
  	   profile->planners.reserve(static_cast<std::size_t>(n));
	   for (Eigen::Index i = 0; i < n; ++i)
	   {
	     auto rrt_connect = std::make_shared<tesseract_planning::RRTConnectConfigurator>();
	     rrt_connect->range = range(i);
	     profile->planners.push_back(rrt_connect);
	   }
	   return profile;

   There are many different OMPL planners available to experiment with. Feel free to play around with a few and observe how your application's motion plan changes (don't forget to include your chosen planner(s) in the header!).

#. Add the planner to the planning server:

   Return to ``planning_server.cpp`` and find the section where we add in our custom planning profiles.

   Copy and paste the follwing

   .. code-block:: c++

      profile_dict_->addProfile<tesseract_planning::OMPLPlanProfile>(
          tesseract_planning::profile_ns::OMPL_DEFAULT_NAMESPACE, PROFILE, createOMPLProfile());

   Now we have added our new OMPL planning profile to the planning server.

#. Add the planner to the taskflow:
   

>    Go back to ``taskflow_generators.hpp``. Now we need to include our OMPL profile in our motion planning taskflow. Our OMPL planner will be used with TrajOpt in our freespace taskflow. First, let's create our node for OMPL. Within ``FreespaceMotionPipelineTask`` add

Reviewer: We aren't directly including our OMPL profile here, we are just adding an OMPL task. In the createProgram method in the main source file we tell the motion planner to use a specific profile name and we created a profile under that identifiier. To actually use the profile we need to add an OMPL MotionPlannerTask here, but we could do that without creating a unique profile and it would just use the default settings.

Reviewer: Also I wouldn't say "Our OMPL planner will be used with TrajOpt" I would say "Our freepsace taskflow will find a solution using OMPL and then improve that solution using TrajOpt" to make sure it is clear the OMPL and TrajOpt aren't completely independent.

Reviewer: I see now, just below this you say almost exactly what my suggestion says. You can probably just move what you have below to here.

   .. code:: c++

      // Setup OMPL
      boost::uuids::uuid ompl_planner_task =
         addNode(std::make_unique<tesseract_planning::OMPLMotionPlannerTask>(output_keys_[0], output_keys_[0]));
  
   Now we need to change our graph edges to incorporate these new nodes. Make the following changes to the edges:

   * ``min_length_task`` will connect to ``ompl_planner_task``

   * ``ompl_planner_task`` will connect to ``error_task`` and ``trajopt_planner_task``

   This taskflow now means OMPL will first find planning solutions and then TrajOpt will smooth out the trajectory.

>    Now lets return to ``CartesianMotionPipelineTask`` and remove Descartes. Comment out where you created the Descartes node and where you connected ``descartes_planner_task`` to ``error_task`` and ``trajopt_planner_task``. Have ``min_length_task`` connect to ``trajopt_planner_task`` instead of your Descartes node. 

Reviewer: This feels like it should be separated from the OMPL section.

#. Run the application:

   Now try running the full application again with our completed motion planning pipeline. How has the plan changed since step one? Also take a look at our completed taskflow graph again and notice the new taskflow. Try playing around with changing some of the edges and see how the motion plan changes. Here are a few things you could try:

   * Remove TrajOpt and see how Descartes and OMPL perform without it.

>    * Remove time parametization

Reviewer: Removing time param won't have an observable difference in simulation, so I'd probably nix this one.

>    * Remove post-collision checking

Reviewer: I would also add a suggestion to change the profiles of Descartes, OMPL, and trajopt to allow collisions if they are going to try this.

#. Source the workspace

    .. code-block:: bash

    	source ~/tesseract_ws/install/setup.bash

#. Import the new workspace into your QTCreator IDE (if using QTCreator):

   * In QTCreator: `File -> New File or Project -> Other Project -> ROS Workspace -> ~/tesseract_ws`
   * Don't forget to check the ROS distro and the build system!

Intro (Review Existing Code)
----------------------------
Most of the infrastructure for a ROS node has already been completed for you; the focus of this exercise are Tesseract planner profiles and taskflow generators. You will notice that many files and packages are already provided for you. You could run the application as is, but you may get errors. At this time we will explore the source code that has been provided. The following are highlights of what is included.

#. ``snp_automate_2022/config/worcell_plugins.yaml``:
	* This file contains all of the kinematic plugins and contact manager plugins for our application. A kinematic plugin configuration file like this is required to use Tesseract. Take a look at ``workcell.srdf`` to see how it gets incorporated into the project.

#. ``snp_motion_planning/src/planner_profiles.hpp``:

> 	* This file contains the planner profiles used to create our motion plan. Currently, only the Simple Planner profile is populated. This is one of the main files we will be editing in our exercise.

Reviewer 2: this will change slightly with the adjustment to planner_profiles.hpp that enables it to build

        		auto eval = std::make_shared<descartes_light::CompoundEdgeEvaluator<FloatType>>();

        		// Nominal Euclidean distance
        		eval->evaluators.push_back(std::make_shared<descartes_light::EuclideanDistanceEdgeEvaluator<FloatType>>());

        		return eval;
      		};
      	profile->vertex_evaluator = nullptr;

   Finally, we set the ``target_pose_sampler`` which takes a given function for sampling. In our example, we specify our pose sampling to allow any rotation along the z-axis as it will not impact our final results. Note that Descartes can only work in discrete space so we are only sampling at increments of 10 degrees around the z-axis.

   Copy and past the following below the previous block:

   .. code-block:: c++
  		
  		profile->target_pose_sampler =
      		std::bind(tesseract_planning::sampleToolZAxis, std::placeholders::_1, 10.0 * M_PI / 180.0);

  		return profile;

#. Add the planner to the planning server:
   
   Within ``snp_motion_planning/src/planner_profiles.hpp``, find the section

   .. code-block:: c++

      /* ========================================
       * Fill Code: ADD CUSTOM PLANNER PROFILES

>        * ========================================*/

Reviewer 2: This line isn't in planner_profiles.hpp . Did you mean: 
  /* ==============================
   * Fill Code: TRAJOPT COMPOSITE 
   * ==============================*/
     /* ==========================
   * Fill Code: TRAJOPT PLAN 
   * ==========================*/
   or 
     /* =======================
   * Fill Code: OMPL 
   * =======================*/
   ?

   This line adds your new custom planning profile to the planning server for our motion plan.

#. Add the planner to the taskflow:
   
   Navigate to ``snp_motion_planning/taskflow_generators.hpp`` and find the method ``ctor()`` within the class ``CartesianMotionPipelineTask``. Find the following block inside

   .. code-block:: c++

      /* ========================================
       * Fill Code: CREATE CUSTOM PLANNER NODES
       * ========================================*/

   Below the block add the following

   .. code-block:: c++

      boost::uuids::uuid descartes_planner_task =
            addNode(std::make_unique<tesseract_planning::DescartesMotionPlannerTask>(output_keys_[0], output_keys_[0],
            false));

   Now we have created nodes for our planner. Find 

   .. code-block:: c++

      /* =======================
       * Fill Code: EDIT EDGES
       * =======================*/

   in the same method and fill in the code to add edges between our nodes. Will need to replace 

   .. code-block:: c++

      addEdges(min_length_task, { contact_check_task });

   with

   .. code-block:: c++

>       addEdges(min_length_task, { descartes_planner_task })

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      addEdges(min_length_task, { descartes_planner_task });
```
unless you out here tryna keep em on their toes

   and then add the line

   .. code-block:: c++

      addEdges(descartes_planner_task, { error_task, contact_check_task });

   Because we want Descartes to be run globally over the entire motion, we need to create a new global raster pipeline. Toward the bottom of the file find

   .. code-block:: c++

      /* =========================================
       * Fill Code: CUSTOM GLOBAL RASTER PIPELINE
       * =========================================*/

   Under it add the following line

   .. code-block:: c++

      using CustomGlobalRasterGlobalPipeline =
          tesseract_planning::RasterGlobalPipelineTask<tesseract_planning::SimpleMotionPipelineTask,
                                                       tesseract_planning::DescartesGlobalMotionPipelineTask,
                                                       CustomRasterPipeline>;

   We have now added Descartes to our raster taskflow. 

>    .. Note:: Pay attention to how the graph's edges and vertices are connected. We have already included post-collision checking for the simple planner and time parameterization. Play around with removing one or both of those and observe how your motion plan changes. 

Reviewer 2: @marrts recommends that we have this included by default and dont have this as a fill code in order to ensure snp_motion_planning can build by default @tiffanyec
